Welcome back everyone.
In part two of this lesson we will continue to style our sites header.
Let's pick up right where we left off and part one and get back to the action now that we have this
transparent blue bar of the header sitting on top of the large hero block this large hero content no
longer looks like it's perfectly vertically centered.
I think we can remedy this by simply adding a bit of top padding to this large hero block content.
The question is how much top padding should we add.
Well this transparent blue bar is taking up about 60 pixels.
So why don't we just add 60 pixels of top padding to this content.
So over in our CSX let's open up the large hero block.
And within this text content rule let's add a new line that says padding top 60 pixels.
That looks a lot better to me.
So why don't we go ahead and change gears let's begin optimizing the header for small screens.
So here's how the header would look on a mobile device.
We definitely have a bit of work to do.
Now the designer on our team did not send a mobile design file.
This means that it's up to us as the developer to flex our design muscles a bit and make smart design
decisions for mobile users.
So my first thought is that for small screens we probably don't need to show the navigation links and
get in touch button right away for small screens we can probably hide this content until the user taps
a menu icon.
So for small screens that would really only leave the company logo and I think we should probably shrink
that logo a bit for smaller screens.
Also if the logo is the only content in the header we probably don't need the transparent blue background
for small screens either we can fade the background back in once a user taps the mobile menu icon.
So let's go ahead and begin making those changes.
Let's start by removing the transparent blue background.
That background is being applied to the site header element.
So we want to jump into our site header CSX file.
Here is the background color line.
Now we do want this to be applied for larger screens.
So what I'm going to do is cut this into my clipboard and then create a mix in media query.
Let's say once the screen is large enough to be considered medium then we do want that background colors
of paste it back in perfect.
Next let's hide the navigation links and get in touch button for small screens.
So let's jump into our HDMI now and instead of hiding the button and the navigation separately for small
screens why don't we just wrap both of these pieces of content in a new wrapper div.
So I'm going to cut this to my clipboard and then let's create a brand new div and give it a class of
site header underscore underscore menu content.
Let's close out that div tag and then within this new div Let's paste in that content.
Let's save this.
And then back in site header CSX we can scroll down to the bottom and create a new rule.
Let's select that new menu content div let's make it hidden by default.
So display none.
But once a screen is considered at least medium so at medium we can tell it to be visible display block
perfect next.
I think we should adjust the company logo so that it is horizontally centered for small screens.
So let's jump to our CSX towards the top of our site header file.
Here is the rule for the logo.
Why don't we just go ahead and say left 50 percent now by itself.
That will push the logo too far to the right.
But then all we need to do to get it perfectly centered is pull it back to the left half of its own
width so we can do that by saying transform translate X negative 50 percent
all right.
Now it's perfectly centered but we don't want it to be horizontally centered on larger screens.
So what we can do within this logo rule is create a media query so mixed in at medium.
And we basically just want to undo these two properties so we can say left auto and transform translate
x zero so the company logo is back to its original positioning on larger screens.
And it's still centered for small screens.
However the size of this dark blue logo area does not work for a small screen.
So why don't we adjust things so that for small screens there's a bit less padding around the logo image
to do that back in our text editor within our logo rule.
Let's just duplicate this padding line so that it also lives in the media query.
So just select this line copied into your clipboard and then within our app medium media query just
paste that in.
Now for the media query for medium screens and larger we can leave these numbers when referring to the
padding numbers.
These can stay the same.
But for our baseline styles for small screens let's reduce this.
So instead of 25 let's put this to maybe 13 instead of 36.
Let's try.
Twenty nine.
Let's give that save.
I think our next step should be to add in a mobile menu icon.
Right about here that users can tap in order to reveal these navigation links and then get in touch
button.
So in order to add in a mobile menu icon here let's jump to our each demo and right before our site
header menu content div let's add a few new lines and create a new div that has a class of site header
underscore underscore menu icon.
Be sure to close out the div and we can actually leave this div empty.
Let's save this file and then go create a rule for this new class.
So over in our site header CSX file.
Let's scroll down to the very bottom right before this menu content rule.
Let's add a few new lines and create a new rule for menu icon.
Let's begin by simply creating a white square that's positioned right about here so we can say with
20 pixels height 20 pixels.
Let's give it a background color of white.
And then in order to position it perfectly in the top right corner we can say position absolute.
It should sit down from the very top 10 pixels.
And it should sit in from the very far right 10 pixels so there we see it on mobile.
However we do not want this icon to exist on larger screens.
So what we can do within this menu icon rule is include a media query so we can say app mix in at medium.
Let's just go ahead and hide the icon completely.
So display none.
So now larger screens won't see the icon at all but it still exists for smaller screens.
Now we don't actually want this to be just a white square.
Instead we want it to be the famous three horizontal bars icon that practically every menu in the world
uses in the post-production for this lesson.
I will overlay an example of the icon I'm referring to.
Now don't worry we will set up that icon style in a future lesson.
And when we do we will build the icon styles in such a way that when a user taps on it it will smoothly
transform and fade from the three bars icon into an X.
And when the user taps the X the menu will be hit and once again.
Now the reason we will set this up in a future lesson instead of right now in this lesson is because
in order to respond to events like that like a tap or a click and subsequently modify the page in some
way we will need to write code in another language aside from each TMM and CSX.
We will need to leverage javascript and it just so happens that in our very next lesson we will begin
a new chapter in the course.
We will begin our dive into javascript and we won't write just any old sloppy javascript.
We will learn how to write super organized modular javascript.
We will write the kind of javascript that will impress your peers and potential employers alike.
I know what I'm about to say has already been said about 30 times in the course but this time I truly
mean it.
This upcoming section should be a lot of fun because in my mind that moment when something in your brain
clicks and the chaos that was once javascript is replaced with something that feels organized.
That is the moment when a professional web developer is born.
And that is the moment that we are going to create for you in the next section.
In case you couldn't already tell this is probably going to be my favorite section in the course.
I think we are going to learn a lot.
So let's keep rolling.
Let's keep our forward momentum and I will see you in the next lesson.